Search: SSS integration guide (#7232)
readthedocs/readthedocs.org: docs/guides/search-indexing.rst

To accomplish this, Read the Docs parses the content directly from your HTML pages [*]_.

If you are the author of a theme or a static site generator you can read the next document,
and follow some conventions in order to improve the integration of SSS with your theme/site.

Indexing
--------

The content of the page is parsed into sections,
in general, the indexing process happens in three steps:

1. Identify the main content node.
2. Remove any irrelevant content from the main node.
3. Parse all sections inside the main node.

Read the Docs makes use of ARIA_ roles and other heuristics in order to process the content.

.. tip::

   Following the ARIA_ conventions will also improve the accessibility of your site.
   See also https://webaim.org/techniques/semanticstructure/.

.. _ARIA: https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria/

Main content node
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The main content node should have a main role (or a ``main`` tag), and should exists only one per page.
This node is the one that contains all the page content. Example:

.. code-block:: html
   :emphasize-lines: 10-12

   <html>
      <head>
         ...
      <head>
      <body>
         <div>
            ...

>          </div>

Author: Any tag works, we only start indexing from the main node

If you have content inside the main node that isn't relevant to the page
(like navigation items, menus, or search box),
make sure to use the correct role for it.
Read the Docs will ignore nodes with the following roles:

- ``navigation``
- ``search``

Example:

.. code-block:: html
   :emphasize-lines: 3-5

   <div role="main">
      ...
      <nav role="navigation">
         ...
      </nav>
      ...
   </div>

Sections
~~~~~~~~

Sections are ``h`` tags, and sections of the same level should be neighbors.
Additionally, sections should have an unique id attribute per page (this is used to link to the section).
All content bellow the section, till the new section will be indexed as part of the section. Example:

.. code-block:: html
   :emphasize-lines: 2-10

   <div role="main">
      <h1 id="section-title">
         Section title
      </h1>
      <p>
         Content to be indexed
      </p>
      <ul>
         <li>This is also part of the section</li>
      </ul>

      <h2 id="2">
         This is the start of a new section
      </h2>
      <p>
         ...
      </p>

      ...

      <h1 id="3">
         ...
      </h1>
      <p>
         ...
      </p>
   </div>

> Sections can also be wrapped till two levels, and it's parent can contain the id attribute.

Author: So, we don't have something like sub-sections, all sections are just treated as sections. If you have nested sections (like the example above). I have improved the examples and wording.

Note that the section content still needs to be bellow the ``h`` tag. Example:

.. code-block:: html
   :emphasize-lines: 3-11,13-22

   <div role="main">
      <div class="section">
         <h1 id="section-title">
            Section title
         </h1>
         <p>
            Content to be indexed
         </p>
         <ul>
            <li>This is also part of the section</li>
         </ul>

         <div class="section">
            <div id="another-section">

>                <h2>

Author: Sections are allowed to be wrapped and its parent can contain the id attribute, I have changed the wording and examples

MkDocs
~~~~~~

Search on MkDocs is provided by the `search plugin`_, which is included (and activated) by default in MkDocs.
The js part of this plugin is included in the `templates/search/main.js`_ file,
which subscribes to the ``keyup`` event of the ``#mkdocs-search-query`` element
to call the ``doSearch`` function (available on MkDocs >= 1.x) on every key press.

Read the Docs overrides the ``initSearch`` and ``doSearch`` functions
to subscribe to the ``keyup`` event of the ``#mkdocs-search-query`` element,
and puts the results into the ``#mkdocs-search-results`` element.
A simplified example looks like this:

.. code-block:: js

   var original_search = doSearch;

   function search_override() {
      var query = document.getElementById('mkdocs-search-query').value;
      var search_results = document.getElementById('mkdocs-search-results');

      var results = fetch_resuls(query);
      if (results) {
         empty_results(search_results)
         for (var i = 0; i < results.length; i += 1) {
            var result = process_result(results[i]);
            append_result(result, search_results);
         }
      } else {
         original_search();
      }
   }

>    function init_override = function () {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   var init_override = function () {
```

Author: oops, thanks!

Better Integration with Server Side Search
==========================================

Read the Docs provides :doc:`server side search (SSS) </server-side-search>`
in replace of the default search engine of your site.
To accomplish this, Read the Docs parses the content directly from your HTML pages [*]_.

> If you are the author of a theme or a static site generator you can read the next document,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are the author of a theme or a static site generator you can read this document,
```

> and follow some conventions in order to improve the integration of SSS with your theme/site.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and follow some conventions to improve the integration of search with your theme/site.
```

Indexing
--------

The content of the page is parsed into sections,
in general, the indexing process happens in three steps:

#. Identify the main content node.
#. Remove any irrelevant content from the main node.
#. Parse all sections inside the main node.

Read the Docs makes use of ARIA_ roles and other heuristics in order to process the content.

.. tip::

   Following the ARIA_ conventions will also improve the accessibility of your site.
   See also https://webaim.org/techniques/semanticstructure/.

.. _ARIA: https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria/

Main content node
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The main content node should have a main role (or a ``main`` tag), and should exists only one per page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The main content node should have a main role (or a ``main`` tag), and there should only be one per page.
```

make sure to use the correct role or tag for it.

Roles to be ignored:

- ``navigation``
- ``search``

Tags to be ignored:

- ``nav``

Example:

.. code-block:: html
   :emphasize-lines: 3-5

   <div role="main">
      ...
      <nav role="navigation">
         ...
      </nav>
      ...
   </div>

Sections
~~~~~~~~

Sections are ``h`` tags, and sections of the same level should be neighbors.
Additionally, sections should have an unique ``id`` attribute per page (this is used to link to the section).
All content bellow the section, till the new section will be indexed as part of the section. Example:

.. code-block:: html
   :emphasize-lines: 2-10

   <div role="main">
      <h1 id="section-title">
         Section title
      </h1>
      <p>
         Content to be indexed
      </p>
      <ul>
         <li>This is also part of the section and will be indexed as well</li>
      </ul>

      <h2 id="2">
         This is the start of a new section
      </h2>
      <p>
         ...
      </p>

      ...

      <h1 id="neigbor-section">
         This section is neighbor of "section-title"
      </h1>
      <p>
         ...
      </p>
   </div>

> Sections can also be wrapped till two levels (and have nested sections),

Reviewer 2: I don't understand this line "wrapped till two levels"

Author: What about

> Sections can be inside till two nested tags (and have nested sections),

            Search.output.append(result);
         }
      } else {
         original_search(query);
      }
   }

   Search.query = search_override;

   $(document).ready(function() {
      Search.init();
   });

Highlights from results will be in a ``span`` tag with the ``highlighted`` class
(``This is a <span class="highlighted">result</span>``).
If your theme works with the search from the basic theme, it will work with Read the Docs' SSS.

.. _`static/searchtools.js`: https://github.com/sphinx-doc/sphinx/blob/275d9/sphinx/themes/basic/static/searchtools.js

MkDocs
~~~~~~

Search on MkDocs is provided by the `search plugin`_, which is included (and activated) by default in MkDocs.
The js part of this plugin is included in the `templates/search/main.js`_ file,
which subscribes to the ``keyup`` event of the ``#mkdocs-search-query`` element
to call the ``doSearch`` function (available on MkDocs >= 1.x) on every key press.

Read the Docs overrides the ``initSearch`` and ``doSearch`` functions
to subscribe to the ``keyup`` event of the ``#mkdocs-search-query`` element,
and puts the results into the ``#mkdocs-search-results`` element.
A simplified example looks like this:

> .. code-block:: js

Reviewer 2: This is a really complex code example in our docs, and seems likely to get out of date. It's super useful though, so I think it's fine, I just worry about it being super specific vs. something a bit more generic.
